English

Purpose, brief description:
The customer of this study is a large telecommunications company that provides services throughout the CIS. The company faces the challenge
determine the current level of consumer loyalty, or NPS (from the English Net Promoter Score), among customers from Russia.
To determine the level of loyalty, customers were asked the classic question: “On a scale of 1 to 10, rate the likelihood that you would recommend
company of friends and acquaintances.
The company conducted a survey and asked me to prepare a dashboard with its results. A large database for such a task was not deployed and unloaded
data in SQLite

Main conclusions:
-Companies need to increase the level of NPS (for example, by means of improving service, support, changing pricing policy), since with an NPS level above 50%
the client base can grow by itself, and you can not advertise at all.
-Mostly, in general, the level of NPS is at a sufficient level, the main part of the audience are supporters of the company (* it is necessary to clarify the average level
loyalty across the industry)
- It is necessary to monitor the level of NPS over time (for example, every quarter, month, week) in order to track and promptly take measures to increase it in
various groups

Tools: Pandas, Python, SQL, Tableau, dashboard building

Link: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/eugenesam/viz/Dashboardfortelecommunicationcompany/Dashboard

Status: project completed

Русский 

Цель, краткое описание:
Заказчик этого исследования — большая телекоммуникационная компания, которая оказывает услуги на территории всего СНГ. Перед компанией стоит задача
определить текущий уровень потребительской лояльности, или NPS (от англ. Net Promoter Score), среди клиентов из России.
Чтобы определить уровень лояльности, клиентам задавали классический вопрос: «Оцените по шкале от 1 до 10 вероятность того, что вы порекомендуете
компанию друзьям и знакомым».
Компания провела опрос и попросила меня подготовить дашборд с его итогами. Большую базу данных для такой задачи разворачивать не стали и выгрузили 
данные в SQLite

Основные выводы:
-Компании необходимо повышать уровень NPS (например по средствам улучшения сервиса, поддержки, изменения ценовой политики), так как при уровне NPS выше 50% 
клиентская база может увеличиваться сама собой, и рекламу можно вообще не давать.
-Преимущественно в целом уровень NPS на достаточном уровне, основная часть аудитории является сторонниками компании (* необходимо уточнить средний уровень 
лояльности во всей сфере),
-Необходимо наблюдать за уровнем NPS  во времени (например каждый квартал, месяц, неделю), чтобы отслеживать и оперативно принимать меры по его повышению в 
различных группах

Инструменты:Pandas,Python,SQL,Tableau,построение дашбордов

Ссылка: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/eugenesam/viz/Dashboardfortelecommunicationcompany/Dashboard

Статус: проект завершен
