English

Purpose, brief description:
Using Yandex.Zen data to build a dashboard with metrics for user interaction with article cards. I worked on this project on
remote machine in the Yandex.Cloud service. I installed PostgreSQL and deployed a database. Then I wrote a pipeline script,
which allowed to collect data for a certain time period, and configured it to work offline through crontab. To visualize collected data
I wrote a dashboard script with several filters and also ran it on a remote machine. Based on the results, a presentation was prepared with the results
charts.

Main conclusions:
- it is possible to single out the leading topics of cards in relative terms - Science, Society, Collections, Interesting facts
- most of the sources relate to various topics, but the most popular topics are Family Relations, Russia and Useful Tips
- we can say that the closer in idea and meaning is the theme of the source item card, the more views. For example, the most viewed
cards with the theme "Stories", the source is "Travel". While the card with the theme "Women" has very few views on the source "Technology"

Tools: PostgreSQL, Python, SQLAlchemy, Tableau, dash, dashboard building, product metrics

Link: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/eugenesam/viz/DashboardforYandex_Dzen_16515794710680/Dashboard

Status: project completed

Русский

Цель, краткое опсиание:
Используя данные Яндекс.Дзена построить дашборд с метриками взаимодействия пользователей с карточками статейРаботу над этим проектом я провел на 
удаленной машине в сервисе Yandex.Cloud. Мной был установлен PostgreSQL, развернута база данных. Затем я написал скрипт пайплайна,
который позволил собирать данные за определенный временной период, и настроил его автономную работу через crontab. Для визуализации собранных данных
я написал скрипт дашборда с несколькими фильтрами и также запустил его на удаленной машине. Порезультатам была подготовлена презентация с полученными
графиками.

Основные выводы:
- можно выделить лидирующие темы карточек в относительных показателях – Наука, Общество, Подборки, Интересные факты
- основная часть источников относится к различным темам, однако самые популярные темы –Семейные отношения, Россия и Полезные советы
- можно сказать, что чем ближе по идее и смыслу тема карточки итема источника, тем больше просмотров. Так, например, наибольшее количество просмотров у 
карточки с темой «Рассказы», источник – «Путешествия». В то время как у карточки с  темой «Женщины», источником «Технологии» просмотров крайне мало

Инструменты: PostgreSQL,Python,SQLAlchemy,Tableau,dash,построение дашбордов,продуктовые метрики

Ссылка: https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/eugenesam/viz/DashboardforYandex_Dzen_16515794710680/Dashboard

Статус: проект завершен 
